we were walking down the street one  evening here  and up at about the six story of a  building we could see in a brightly lit  window  a young woman  with the telltale ring light on  and her face was there right in the  window like as if  she were looking out the window speaking  in this very animated  over-the-top way  and it was the ring light that gave away  what was happening here you could see  the silhouetted ring light and then her  brightly lit face right there in the  window she wasn't talking to herself she  wasn't talking to passersby on the  street or anything like that she  was recording  a youtube video this is a complete  stranger in the night someone i know  nothing about we see looking up from the  sidewalk and he's like oh  who do you suppose that person is  what do you suppose they're  recording a youtube video about right it  could be anything it could be something  wonderful it could be something uh  meaningful and of course the odds are  it's something totally meaningless and  totally self-indulgent it could be a  review of a new pair of shoes it could  be a new uh new tube of toothpaste  what have you you know i understand that  most people in the audience  they regard what i'm doing here as  shallow by default just because of the  the format the platform that it's on  the frame that this picture is  is set in i think a lot of people in the  audience regard what i'm doing as  something shallow and silly  and a waste of my time  and therefore it's incomprehensible to  them  that i would while indulging in this  hobby and putting so much time in this  hobby that i would close down the  comment section saying that it's a waste  of time  so this is a seemingly shallow topic  that i want to talk about in a  reasonably profound way i want to talk  about why i do youtube what the  philosophy isn't doing youtube for me in  2022.  and yeah i do want to answer the  question of why the comments are are  turned off and you know what that what  that means to me now and what it would  entail to have the comment section open  and look guys it it does i mean  it involves in a complex way  the meaning of time  you've only got so many years  on this earth you've only got so many  years to make a difference  in this life to change the world right  so wasting time not just in a sense of  um  being addicted to playing video games  versus having other ambitions and so on  but looking at your life over a  five-year span over a ten-year span and  so on and really thinking in a  meaningful way about what it is you're  committed to accomplishing in those 10  years what kind of person you you want  to be what kind of risks you're going to  take why you're on youtube  but you know  no offense guys what do you what are you  alive for you know what is the meaning  of life for you what is the meaning  you're  you're trying to get out of this life  and then  what are you willing to do  you know to uh  to make it happen and i know that kind  of discourse coming from me  um  maybe it's shockingly disconcerting for  an audience that is conditioned just by  this platform just by the frame the  picture is is put in right they're  conditioned to expect a sort of phony  devil may care attitude from youtubers  right we're supposed to pretend that  this is effortless we're supposed to  pretend that it's not a sacrifice and  it's not a sacrifice we're making in our  lives for very particular  perceived and possible outcomes right  right away even if you have only a few  hundred viewers it's a sacrifice you  lose your privacy you become a public  figure you have all the disadvantages of  fame with none of the advantages you  know it's it's a gambit  and um  [Music]  everybody who does it  everybody has thought through the best  case scenario  not everybody who's done it things  through the worst case scenario and the  range of mediocre possible outcomes  that are in between  now  one aspect of why the comment section is  closed it's on my mind today i just made  a meaningful video  talking about bitcoin  talking about cryptocurrency talking  about economics which i'm happy to talk  to  talk to you guys about more if people  are interested in hearing my perspective  for that we can do some spontaneous q a  on on that side of the  puzzle  um  and you know i got  meaningful  well-intentioned comments from the  audience  which is not always the case  these were meaningful well-intentioned  comments  but each one would require me to write a  short essay  in a response  and  it's not enough for me to say  that would be a waste of my time  all right  what i have to say to you further is  i really care  about the topic  i really care about debunking and  counteracting misinformation  about the topic and i don't feel  comfortable  at all  having those comments on my video even  if they're well intentioned even if  they're not trolling that they're not  hateful  i'm not comfortable having them there  unanswered  like if i don't take the time to answer  it it's below my video and some of them  are seemingly  debunking  what i'm saying so now i could give you  examples from a whole range of things  here that are to varying sense  well-intentioned or not so  well-intentioned  if you make a video  talking about circumstance  and you have the comments open  you're going to get muslim people  writing in the comments that everything  you're saying about circumcision is  untrue  they're perfectly happy with their  circumcision your medical claims are  false and they can debunk it or just  google the name of some muslim scholar  or another or some muslim medical doctor  who will prove that this is all wrong  do you care  like on that issue  do you want to have a video that's  making a kind of atheist scientific  argument about  circumcision and god there were a lot  more of them than there are you  in the world  on the internet  you can have 500 comments from people  who want to defend their religion in  that way and hypothetically they could  all be well intentioned like maybe none  of them are trolling maybe none of them  are being spirit maybe none of them are  insulting you it's quite likely to make  you  mean spirited forward but setting that  aside right  do you  care and i understand the audience is  conditioned here  it's just so many youtubers so many  interviewers said oh you know i'm just  having fun on camera and then the money  and the fame is an accident that's not  what motivated them all along you know  they're just having fun on camera no  they don't care about what people say  about the size of their bum or their  acne or whatever it is and then you know  one after another these people they all  have some moment where they the mask  comes off or they break down weeping and  they talk about how they have nightmares  because of some anonymous comments in  the comment section really this is a  mass cultural phenomenon it's  unbelievable and i'm just being real i  don't know if that existed before if you  go back did people who used to do news  broadcasts on nbc  have this kind of relation to their  audience in the 1970s people used to  make documentaries for pbs i mean i know  they've got letters i know i've actually  yeah i've heard some funny stories about  the old days of rhetoric letter writing  campaigns to hollywood where piles of  letters would come in  demanding some kind of change or people  expressing that they're you know uh  upset about this okay so i'm gonna give  you two more examples really quickly  we'll come back to the bitcoin and  cryptocurrency example which you know  think deserves to be discussed in a  little bit of depth  okay i have made  numerous videos criticizing nazism both  historical nazism  the world war ii period etc  and neo-nazism and criticizing  particular people who are  neo-nazis i have had the situation on  the channel and i remember there was one  video i left the comment section open on  the video for i think about a year but  if not it was many months there were  hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of  comments from  neo-nazis white supremacists racist  these these type of people  right and i left that there for a long  time so that people could see  like this is the reality of what you  deal with and i don't know some other  website must have shared the link to  that video and whatever and let me say  the vast majority of the more mean  spirit and i got comments and i got  emails during that period for quite a  long time of people writing in to let me  know that i'm a jew as if i didn't know  that you know  to let me know what uh what a bad person  i am because i'm jewish and this kind of  thing  um to to inform me of their racial  superiority over me  go ahead prove it  you know you know i did i did get that  kind of hate mail that does not concern  or upset me  in any way and this is why i'm setting  up these examples here to make this kind  of contrast now you know  what would be the point  in replying to comments like that right  well the first example was of  circumcision  if you really care about changing  people's minds about circumcision and if  you even care about viewers who might  click on that video  and look at the comments first before  they watch it or while they're listening  to the first 30 seconds  you care look there are all these  comments here that claim they're  debunking me that claim my opinion is  ill-informed or unscientific or that i'm  wrong or something  we have a problem where it's it's not  like people read a movie review and then  go and watch the movie or something  right they're hearing people denouncing  your short film however you want to  think of it while they're watching the  film they're hearing hecklers  interrupting your performance unknown to  you right and so now you've got a  challenge what are you gonna do are you  gonna delete each of the comments that  are contrary to your opinion are you  gonna write an essay in response to each  one and guys  i have timed it  i have that's something where you  use a stopwatch how long it takes to  really do to flee  reply to these these kinds of comments  even even when they're well intentioned  even when people are actually curious or  asking sincere questions even when your  answer to some of those questions is oh  that's a good question i already made a  youtube video about that here's the link  to the video it is  time consuming right  and in a sense also  um when you're thinking about the next  viewer to see the video this still  unknown person is clicking on the video  for the first time  you are kind of fighting this uphill  battle  just to try to get that next viewer to  see the video without being biased  by the trolls and hate mail and and and  what have you that's below it now again  in some ways the the neonatal example is  the easiest to deal with because anyone  seeing that video is gonna okay this is  a guy who's criticizing neo-nazis he's  against nazis or what have you  and you can tell that from the title of  the video and then here are these people  in the comments section insulting and  denouncing him for being a jew or what  have you  one would hope you know the the viewer  is still  receptive in this way  well you know  one that's going to be easy for most you  to relate to what if you do a video  talking about the carnivore diet okay  i'm vegan in case you didn't know  and you're debunking health claims about  people eating 100 meat diet you may be  debunking the anti-vegan claims made by  carnivores you will get comments in the  comment section from people claiming  that vegan diet ruined their life and a  100 meat diet  miraculously healed them and guys  there were more of them than there are  of us  there are far more of the pro-meat  people there are far more of the people  who are just daydreamers willing to  believe whatever fad diet  is being promoted by joe rogan whatever  is being promoted by jordan peterson  whatever they read in the last issue of  cosmopolitan magazine or timex and  whatever some celebrity has made popular  this week or this month  they're also just more people who hate  vegans people care about veganism or the  ethics or ecology of vegan diet right  you can lose your whole life  answering those comments one at a time  and i already got to kind of really  think about this deeply when i had a  blog before the youtube channel i had a  blog prior to starting this youtube  channel was called vegan mind tricks  when you really sit there and recognize  wow they outnumber us like a million to  one on the internet and like if you want  to do this and it was it was somewhat  amusing to kind of field  hate mail coming in from these people  and it was different because again  unlike the comment section on youtube  it's not the case that people are seeing  what you've written  with the heckling from the audience kind  of informing them first or interrupting  your your performance you know what i  mean  it's not quite the same situation but  you can add up seriously the number of  hours a day on any of these things  and again  the fundamental question is  do you care  now i've already i've already alluded to  this it's it's pretty easy to just  dehumanize neo-nazis and dehumanize  anyone in the audience who sympathizes  with people who are racist white  supremacist you know it's it's easy to  do that i've argued in many videos you  shouldn't do that like if you're  whatever you're doing news  history politics news commentary if  you're in this kind of field i think you  actually have to have to have the kind  of detachment to um  to take these things seriously even if  they're french ideologies and really  plunge into the critique of them in a  thorough going way and to treat them  seriously  even if uh you know even if it is  impossible uh to take them seriously we  have a great question from the audience  so i said in the description of this  video if there are enough intelligent  questions this will become a q a if not  it will be a monologue great question  ants quote  how much ass do you get compared to  tkyosam  [Laughter]  see this is what i miss out on i do i do  q and a uh live here under the comment  i think the chat open during my live  streams but imagine imagine i could be  spending the hours of my day answering  questions like this from the audience  well the answer to that the answer to  that question is we don't know because  tko sam is never honest about  about how much affection he gets from  women so we'd be comparing something  known to something unknown  but you'll find i'm very honest about my  love life and about my sex life in a way  that that tko sam is not okay so  i made a video talking about  cryptocurrency talking about economics  in relation to bitcoin and in relation  to social media influencers my fellow  youtubers and even my fellow vegan  youtubers giving advice that could  really ruin people's lives i care  i really care about that issue  and again so this is these are each  each example is very different right i  mean  sadly if you're getting messages from  people who've already been members of  the muslim faith for 40 years they're  very unlikely to change their minds and  you have to ask yourself do you want to  spend your time  answering these comments well i got  several people commenting me saying that  they were absolutely certain that what i  was complaining about so for example the  actions of james aspie  the actions of brian turner these are  just particular examples of social media  influencers um  but anyway we could also talk about jake  paul logan paul we've talked about all  kinds of social media influencers who've  become involved in the cryptocurrency  phenomenon in the last few years  they were absolutely certain that what i  was describing was already illegal  under sec regulations now it's not worth  explaining why i know this but melissa  and i have done quite a bit of reading  about sec regulations in the last few  years and the finra exams and what are  the other ones the  kafta organic finra  cfa  right okay so finra and cfa and sec and  stuff and how how the licensing for  these professions works and what the  legal implications are  and i'm sitting there  and you know i've really got three  options  i can just delete this person's  particular comment  and they may notice and they may feel  insulted and they say oh well you you  shut me down just because i  disagree with you i can close the whole  comment section people are going to feel  about it however they feel or i can sit  here  and write an essay  saying no that's not what the sec  regulations say that's not how american  law works that's not how freedom of  speech in america works that's not like  you know get into the paradigm so i  think of those comments  the comments that said that i think one  i deleted and this show i'm sorry part  of the problem is i care  i care enough that i do not want  something that is factually false and  misleading like that i don't want to be  on the internet but i don't want to be  on my own youtube channel and don't want  to be there apparently contradicting my  video and showing that i don't know what  i'm talking about when i do  right so this has happened in all kinds  of different topics on my on my channel  including like marxism  with the history of  i'm an anti-marxist by the way but when  i'm doing critique of karl marx and  there are people who are pro marxists to  show up and the comment may begin with  the words this guy doesn't know what  he's talking about this guy hasn't read  karl marx and it says something mark  said and like okay do you want me to  write an essay back no i really have  read karl marx i know a lot about the  history of marxism and a lot about the  history of communism and here's what you  don't know like do you want to  counteract that  get out your stopwatch and we can't just  think about a waste of time short term  you have to think about it long term  over five years over over ten years so  and so forth where are you going to be  five years from now this is how you  spend your time answering again we're  not even talking about trolls we're not  talking about people with bad intentions  or people just ridiculing you  who may be  sincerely misguided and they're  misleading other people right there in  your in your comment section now again  look  a lot of you in the audience with any of  these examples you may just say oh  whatever who cares  who cares if some guy says your video is  wrong  because he pretends he understands the  sec regulations better than you do sorry  i don't think i finished my anecdote  what i was going to say was i think of  the first three people maybe the first  four people who left a comment to that  effect i deleted one of them because it  was just too late at night for me to  deal with it  and then the next three i said the same  thing i said you are one google search  away  from finding the answer that question  from finding that you're wrong finding  that you're incorrect and saying that  about  about government regulations for  financial aid  at least one of those guys  wrote back to me and again i don't think  he has any bad intentions  with a long statement saying no this is  the sec regulation  section 267 and it says this  and he's wrong  it's completely wrong  so what should i record another youtube  video talking this  right this is what you're gonna do am i  gonna write an essay am i gonna fight  this out in the comment section on my  own youtube channel and guys this is a  substantive  sincere discussion of a matter of fact  that guy had no bad intentions i don't  think any of those people had bad  intentions and there's a sense in which  i don't want to delete their comments  right  there's a sense in which i'd like to  encourage them to actually do some  research and develop a sophisticated  point of view of this and give you  another example where it was all just  really shallow  um badly motivated uh  caddy comments but you guys remember i  i'm an atheist  and i actually talk about the importance  of not celebrating christmas not  celebrating easter like not  carrying on with these christian  traditions but taking the time to  innovate and create something meaningful  for your children or grandchildren  that's different from the christian  traditions that have come before  it would not be surprising  if i got hate mail from christians if i  got hate mail from muslims and jews  oh no of course not it's other atheists  who are attacking me it's other atheists  who are saying the cattiest and most  mean-spirited  thing imaginable in response to that  so again  that's very different like what is there  to win  and what is there to lose i did take  some time replying to some of the other  atheists on that issue partly because  quite a few of them had their own  youtube channels and some of them have  been youtubing for years  and i remember saying them like look  you've just said this incredibly mean  and insulting thing about me like here's  the scenario i am a father  pretending  i am a father preparing to spend  christmas with my daughter  like that that was stated i think in the  first couple of minutes the video was  says look i am a parent  i have a child like and at that time  when i made that video we were packing  our bags and you know like we were  figuring out how to make a gingerbread  house like we were figuring out how to  do some holiday activities guys i am not  going to keep  perpetuating this cycle of inculcating  religious beliefs i don't believe in  this is really meaningful to me i'm here  to talk to you about the challenge of  trying to do something better  for my own daughter but i took the time  to reply to several of these atheists  and say look man like  this is how mean-spirited you are to me  like this is how cruel and vicious you  are to be when that's that's the  scenario  like there are all kinds of occasions on  which people get to exercise that kind  of catty vicious  side of their character on the internet  i don't know  frankly open up the newspaper  you can leap through the newspaper and  ask yourself what do i have to be  outraged about today  find something that you think is a moral  obscenity and just make a youtube video  denouncing it and it's like and you you  and you and you these different atheist  youtubers  you you decided it was me you decided it  was a parent  talking about writing new poetry  to recite with his daughter creating a  new illustrated storybook for his  daughter because i don't want to  celebrate jesus christ i don't want to  celebrate santa claus i also  don't really want to celebrate mickey  mouse  like i don't like mickey mouse or donald  i know it's not religion it's just  garbage it's just crap like i don't feel  that the culture handed down to me by my  ancestors is good enough you know is it  for me to  inculcate this into the next generation  you know educate the next generation in  this raise them with these assumptions  so anyway you know  you can take the time  to do that okay  how many of those other atheists these  are people who are hypothetically  committed to a movement to change the  world  right hypothetically these people are  radicals they're rebels right these  people are supposedly the leaders of the  revolution in reality they're not right  what do you think my success rate was  what percentage those people sent me  back any kind of message that was even  grudgingly  respectful or like  treated me with a bare minimum of  dignity that you would extend to uh the  bank teller or you know the person who  bags your groceries  you know zero you know the reality is  i'm an atheist youtuber making  pro-atheist content  and i'm treated just as badly by my  fellow atheists  you know as i am by neo-nazis right  now  you guys you guys can  draw your own conclusions about this  would it be reasonable for me to say  this is now 2022  the vast majority of other vegans and  vegan youtubers  right they treat me about as badly  as the neo-nazis they treat me about as  badly as the communists they treat me  but as badly as the people have  criticized there's no there's no mutual  respect or esprit de corps or  cooperation right there's no real  decorum there you know  you can feel free to disagree you can  take it i mean  making videos about veganism for such a  long time but guys i've been making  content about atheism for such a long  time i've been making content about  parenting and about the children's  storybooks i've written for how many  years  i think i'm up to about eight years on  youtube at this point so these are all  you know areas i've really contributed  to a great deal  bitcoin relatively recently i think my  first video about bitcoin was about one  year and one month ago this has been  some of the time from dad haven't built  up a huge  a huge audience for that um  guys i do see your your comments as they  come in  um  okay so it's a reasonable comment here  but you'll see i'm gonna give a  seemingly irrelevant answer so  generation x says quote i think you were  giving commenters too much credit if you  let people comment there will be more  engagement with your videos they'll be  more shared and he says  there will always be  idiots  okay so i i really disagree  and i also think that what you're saying  is kind of spurious to the the big point  i'm making in this video i'm not angry  at you or something i'm just saying i do  disagree and i am someone with eight  years of experience with this  and over six million views at this point  now  i ask you this  if you make the decision  to share the link to a particular video  with a particular person  what is that decision based on  it's never based on the the comments in  the comment section i don't believe that  maybe one person out of a million if you  happen to see a video today i do it  often enough there's a video about a  particular topic  for me it's like oh here's someone who  really did the research on this  historical issue my judgment is never  based on the quality of the comments in  the conversation i never say oh hey you  should check out this video this guy  took a really long time to answer  comments in the comment section never  it's never based on what the youtuber  himself writes in the comment section  it's never based on on the reply so you  know you share the link to a particular  video with a particular person because  it's compelling to you it's about some  topic that really matters to that person  really matters to you there's some  reason there's some particular reason we  do that and guys  there's very little of that activity  happening now in 2022 in many ways just  the public enthusiasm for youtube has  cooled off and the type of websites  where people used to share those links  i just say it's it's now much harder for  new videos to pardon me it's much harder  for new channels to become successful  precisely because that type of sharing  activity has has died down compared to  say the heady days of uh  of 2014.  so uh i think this is a good uh question  by the way  uh so john ortiz asks  so  who checks if you're correct  so look i this is the other thing  it may be  a good use of my time  to go out and do the research  and write an essay in response to a  question from the audience so the  specific example i've been using here  repeatedly as there's a comment about  bitcoin about cryptocurrency and someone  says oh these are the sec regulations or  they have these are this is the legal  framework we already have this is what's  already illegal and illegal  okay there is a kind of argument that  it's it's good for the good of my soul  so to speak for me to go out do the  research and write an essay in response  to that question  right  the problem is  over a five-year period of time and that  is a completely thankless task that's  literally more of a waste of my time  than making a new youtube video  just answering that one question  in text form as a written composition  will take more time than making a  youtube video right  and what i'm asking here is not just  short term not just what happens to one  day of your life or one week of your  life or one month of your life when you  take the time to do this i'm asking over  five years and over 10 years you know  after that time has gone what have you  got left  i knew another youtuber i just i'll  leave her unnamed for the sake of it  and she was on vacation with her family  in south america i believe this is in  colombia  and she said that was the first time it  struck her  just how many hours she was spending  viciously attacking people on twitter  and in youtube comment sections  so i'd seen her too i'd seen her  viciously attacking me in youtube  conversations so i know she was somebody  who put a lot of work into it she was  someone who got vicious and just just  spent a lot of time now i think the  reason for this was that the the billing  system they had in columbia at that time  i'm sure all these technologies will  change in just a few years but at that  time it was quite expensive for her to  access her mobile phone network and use  the internet via her phone so sort of  something where every hour was being  measured that she that she had  connectivity that she was online  and  she decided to quit youtube entirely she  i think she quit youtube quit twitter  she just had a quick social media said  look this has become like maybe this was  supposed to be a part-time hobby and  it's become a full-time job she was  spending so much time passionately  denouncing these people she had a  husband she had kids at that time she  didn't have a job she had just been  raising her kids and things she was  planning to go back into the workforce  and she just had to recognize how much  how much time was there so look and now  again guys i think marxism is another  really great example i did for several  years make myself available to talk to  communists a couple of times i talked to  people who were nazis or neo-nazis you  know to talk to people with really  different points of view for myself  right and it's it takes time i mean you  do that out of generosity of spirit not  like i don't gain anything i  really  it doesn't do me any good to talk to a  communist or talk to a neo-nazi to try  to deprogram them try to challenge their  self-righteous ignorance and overturn  their assumptions but i can do that  right so you could be getting comments  about  economics from a marxist point of view  the example i'm using here about bitcoin  it's not mean spirit at all it's not  like targeting communists or neo-nazis  it's just somebody who's wrong somebody  means completely means well but they're  really wrong and it would really be a  huge chunk of your time to talk about so  i wanna i wanna zoom out a bit as i say  it's one thing to say now look i had to  think about that today  what is my list of things to get done  today and i made the decision with that  particular video i thought wow this  really shows  even when you're having no problems with  anti-semitism you're having no problems  with kind of harassment or trolling even  when you're having none of the problems  the internet is infamous for we don't  have people  people denouncing you for your sex life  on the basis of a rumor that was made up  by socrates on the internet 10 years ago  the rumor that's still on reddit that  never had any basis in reality and where  if you just click through the link  that's in that text you'll see it was uh  you know nonsense all along like you  know a rumor made up by freely or  durianrider you know like it's it's not  that stuff you're dealing with that even  when you're dealing with people who have  good intentions and in a sense good  questions  you can't justify  taking the time to answer them to have  an open comment section  okay i have to think about that in terms  of what i'm going to get accomplished  today i have to think about in terms of  what i'm going to accomplish  this week  and this month  let me ask you something  what happened to the amazing atheist  what happened to the whole vitality  of the political movement  that he was once voluntarily or  involuntarily a leader of  i mean this sincerely  i'm not being snide  you know there was a period of time when  a certain number of hit books were  published  clustered together you know one time a  certain number of lecture tours were  embarked upon by high profile world  famous atheists and simultaneously  on youtube  the amazing atheist emerged jacqueline  glenn emerged a generation  of commentators whom you could indeed  call b-list  celebrities whereas the people who had  best-selling books on the new york times  bestseller list people who had hit books  or hit movies there were a couple  documentary movies  remember religious how many years ago  was that uh hit movie by that tv talk  show host uh so there were sorry uh yes  bill maher so bill maher had he had hit  books and hit movies and of course the  infamous sam harris had a number of hit  books and someone attacking religions on  okay and by the way also all of that i  think you could uh you could say  somewhat nebulously it was linked to  september 11th 2001 and public reaction  after it's number 11 testimony so in  terms of the overall  political context certainly sam harris  and his rise to fame had everything to  do with that so there was a questioning  of islam the questioning of christianity  and you know  there was a time when you know you could  if you strike while the iron was hot  it could change the world  and people like the amazing atheist were  able to attract huge amounts of  donations with incredibly vague promises  they were going to do something with the  money  and what i'm saying to you is i believe  the amazing atheist did nothing with the  money now today i'm just being honest  with you many years ago i remember you  could still find  websites that had collected together  lists  by the way i see some more good  questions coming in i'll answer them in  a second  you could see websites that collect  together lists of all the e-begging the  amazing atheists had done i remember  there was one youtube channel that made  a video about it and the youtube channel  is now deleted it's unfortunate because  i wish someone had kept a copy of that  one video  i wasn't riveting but it was just this  guy talking through  example by example then the amazing  atheist asked for money for this then he  asked for that and most of these  projects just didn't happen most of them  were just vapor  but the ones that kind of sort of did  happen  it was a lot like the intellivision  amico you know it was kind of like well  you know it just barely happened the  money was taken and this project it  never got rolling or very very little  came out of it there were very little  show in terms of in terms of outcomes by  the way to give you one example  at one point the amazing atheist said he  was so unhappy about censorship on  youtube he was going to start his own  video hosting website to compete with  youtube to have a video sharing platform  he never really defined  he  i believe he said it was going to be for  him and his friends for him and like my  people to have videos on i forget if he  but he didn't define it strictly as  being an atheist uh  youtube  competitor or what exactly the sense of  mission was but he did have a certain  degree of showmanship in coming on  camera and making this  sales pitch and say look freedom of  speech is being stifled here on youtube  we can't say what we want to say anymore  we can't you know because we need to  have  we we need to have a less censored video  platform and a lot of people lined up  and donated a lot of money  and in the end there was absolutely  nothing to show for it nothing  and he never made a youtube video  answering it either the question of  where did the money go why did the money  all disappear he did once in a live q  and a session uh basically during a live  stream  um there were other people participating  it wasn't him alone he addressed it i  remember him saying hey look somebody  edit this part out and make a youtube  video out of it so people can find it  when they ask that question  he was that lazy that he never even made  a video really dealing with and talking  through item by item where where the  money met went and would have been  accomplished with it okay  it's a quick parallel we all lived  through this this is now the year 2022.  can anyone remember the year 2020  can anyone remember the political events  of just the last  two years can anyone remember  thousands of radicals and anarchists  marching in the streets thousands of  communists demanding  you know police reform demanding changes  to you know the system of policing the  united states america and and now today  where's where is that interest and you  know in many cases we also have to ask  in terms of the public enthusiasm that  caused where did the money go  you know  more than 90 million dollars were  donated to one  one organization called black lives  matter the total amount of money given  to black lives matter type organizations  over many years it will be much much  more than 90 million dollars obviously  it's more than 100 billion dollars that  would be an incredibly conservative  amount where is the change what what do  we have to show for where are the where  are the outcomes right now i'm just  gonna ask you really it's very very  debatable  you compare these two examples like  atheism and police reform  which one is the bigger example i mean i  know if if you live through 2020  especially if you were in portland  oregon or something you might feel like  police reform is the bigger story or the  more urgent or just more tremendous in  scale it's not  atheism is global you know the quality  of police services in the united states  of america is limited united states  america some of these questions are you  know perhaps global in their  implications and you know as as many  people lined up to to argue in response  to that movement in response to the  so-called defund the police movement  within the united states of america  there are many places where the quality  of police services are exemplary so it's  not even a universal problem within the  united states you have this whole  discourse frankly of course it is in  large part a discourse of excuse making  like let me make it clear i don't really  sympathize with either side in that  debate if you want to know what my  position is you have to buy my book i  wrote a whole book about it  my book is called no more manifestos so  that should be out the next couple of  weeks  um  yeah talk about questions of are you  wasting your time when you've got a  manuscript to finish i i could put 12  hours a day into that manuscript and  spending just two or three hours a day  answering uh youtube comments that would  that would cut into it uh considerably  um  okay my point is this  i heard another youtuber say recently  and i showed it at this youtuber just  lately so i believe her name is sarah  woods  sarah wood i'll get the name here  i will get the correct name so i made a  video recently showing how this woman  youtube channel she is an  african-american woman who um  researches yes susan woods susan woods  who researches  corruption  and inefficiency within the black lives  matter movement she is asking the tough  questions again and again and again  including the question of you know  where did the money go uh so and so  forth about about black lives matter so  one thing she said in passing she didn't  say this particularly passionately she  didn't say this  with any great intensity or  theatricality but she said very simply  she's now an older woman i guess she's  in her mid-50s  she said an opportunity like this will  not come again in her  lifetime  i i would ask will it happen again in  the next 100 years so the woman has  already lived a long life  and she said very simply  there will never be another time when  all the white people  are marching in the street with us and  saying our problems matter our concerns  matter there will never be another time  when people in paris france  are marching because of black american  politics and when people were donating  money to this cause it wasn't just rich  white people of course it wasn't just  black people either but people from  paris and germany and i think japan  maybe i'm wrong about that i i don't  know the japanese perspective on blm to  be honest but you know people around the  world were really animated were really  motivated were really sympathetic and  where there was a consensus  for maybe just two short years that  something has to change that things have  to get better and we have to start  taking some risks like we have to we  have to as people like to say change the  system right that we need something  differentiate she said very simply now i  don't want to pull words in your mouth  but i'm paraphrasing you know nothing  like this had ever happened  during her life  and nothing like this is gonna happen  again during her life or during any  human lifetime like  within the span of a century  this was a unique  opportunity to make some kind of change  and to see that that opportunity was  squandered  would be an understatement i mean the  single biggest foundation involved here  the black lives matter  global  foundation  approximately you know the one um  led by patrice cullers  that that specific blm organization  certainly they received more than 90  million dollars the number 90 million  comes from one report at one point in  time that would have received donations  before that and in the years after that  so we don't know  in excess of 90 million dollars was  placed in the hands of this organization  with no questions asked right to say  that that opportunity has been  squandered would be  an understatement there are really  serious questions to be asked there and  frankly i i do not expect there to to be  any answers i i just have no reason to  think in the next five years or the next  i don't think we'll ever know what  happened to the money there's no reason  to expect any accountability  or outcomes from that and the question  is will we  we in the audience right now you people  watching this video are we going to draw  some new conclusions are we going to  learn some lessons in this are we going  to take on new directions in politics  new forms of organization new forms of  innovation that's what i just wrote a  whole book about so i have two books out  this year 2022 one is called veganism  future of an illusion  very provocative very entertaining book  and it's only about 100 pages long 100  pages 120 pages  it's a quick read  no more manifestos  is a much longer much heavier book and  by the way it's going to be published  both in english and in spanish we have a  few people here who speak spanish as  their first language both of my books  are being translated into spanish and  we'll see if i maybe i can become fluent  in spanish myself reading my own work in  in parallel oh yeah so frida says yes  doesn't it so some of you you'll can uh  it will certainly be good if  if your english is is mediocre you'd be  able to read both and and compare them  you know  um anyway good we have some more more  questions coming back to bitcoin here's  one of the leap  level tips to this video but not uh  not the core topic here so i had another  question from generation x and this is a  good question and it really is part of  what i wanted to address in this video  excuse me picking up on something  implicit here he asked simply  may i ask what the goal of this channel  is  look  i'd point out  this channel's name  tells you something about its secret  origins right  what were my assumptions  when i created this youtube channel  in the first place all right what what  was the point of this youtube channel  and what was going on  on youtube generally  right it's really fair to say my youtube  channel was in significant part  a response to and an imitation of what  the amazing atheist was already doing  it was very specifically a response to  what was going on in atheism on youtube  and what seemed to be  the beginnings of  a somewhat intellectual  atheist movement now there are a lot of  things i can contribute to that  no offense  i have a higher level of education in  politics than anyone else i know of with  an atheist youtube channel like so there  may be some i don't know about but if  you compare me to jacqueline glenn if  you compare me to  the amazing atheists so on and so forth  well okay my field of study my formal  training and career was in politics  political science political philosophy  all of the above whatever you want to  say mud and blood real world politics i  know a lot about politics i know a lot  about history so there's something i can  bring to it there already the other  reality is he didn't know i was a  scholar of buddhism for about 10 years  and there was nobody there was nobody  dealing with buddhism on youtube there's  nobody engaged in an atheist critique  of buddhism and i was willing to step up  and and do that so my assumptions in  getting involved with youtube in the  first place had everything to do with  that atheist movement so i'm still  answering your question uh generation x  that's not the end of the answer yet  you know  um  but i wanna i wanna remind you of the  question i i raised before myself okay  the people who donated money to the  amazing atheist  what were they expecting they were  expecting him to do something  they were expecting some kind of outcome  they were expecting him to change the  world or at least to get up off his ass  and really try  right they were expecting to see  something you know you can ask the same  question about people who donated to  black lives matter they probably didn't  have very precise  expectations people donated  millions of dollars  to black lives matter what what outcomes  did they want to see what were their  expectations it's you could interview  people about this i think a great many  of the donors say well i just wanted to  do something positive i wanted to see  something come of it i wanted to make  they might say i wanted to see that  there was some kind of change some kind  of change  totally well-intentioned you know i'm  not faulting them for that but they  probably didn't have any precise or  particular  expectations well the truth is  there was a period of time  when something really great  could have been made  out of the raw material of the atheist  movement here on youtube there really  was  and  that time was coming to an end  just when i got onto youtube look i  think i joined this platform when the  opportunity was  ending or over to be an atheist on  youtube to talk about ideas and the  politics of atheism  to engage in the in the critique of of  religion and so on  and i could now  in a completely self-centered  self-pitying way let you know how  disappointed i am with all the people  who didn't cooperate with me and didn't  collaborate with me and didn't encourage  me all the people who treated me like  crap um when a little bit of civility  would have gone a long way  and you know a lot of these other  podcasts and youtube channels  i see what they're doing they're  scraping the bottom of the barrel to  have someone to interview about buddhism  and i'm able to write and say look  i actually learned to read and write  pali i actually lived in cambodia and  laos and thailand and actually even i  wasn't living there like when i was  living in england i was reading about  the anthropology and politics and  history of this part of the world some  with really a lot of deep knowledge and  experience including the type of shallow  anecdotes i mean i've deep diving  experience i also have shallow knowledge  and experience the type of anecdotes  that really make an interview a podcast  or a or a youtube video worthwhile  and not a single one of those channels  was ever willing to talk to me also i  offered to travel after you go to those  events and meet up and face-to-face so  guys i am not saying this for no reason  this is an answer to a question but it's  a question i did want to i did want to  get to here and it relates even to the  the topic of  the title of this video you know why i  don't uh have the youtube comment  section  right  okay  i was vegan  before  the youtube channel began  i did not plan for this youtube channel  to be primarily about veganism i still  try to argue to people that it is  neither exclusively nor  primarily about veganism right  but for several years we could talk  through a sort of parallel phenomena i  would say melissa and i were just  talking about this before the video i  would say this came to a crescendo and  say 2014  there was a period of time when there  was this tremendous potential this  tremendous hope there were these raw  materials for something really positive  to be made  out of the vegan movement  and then i i got to see that come to an  end and i was warning people too while  it happened i was like look guys this is  not going to last there's this period  where it has a certain kind of novelty  where there's a certain kind of interest  and yes if we're really being honest  as with  black lives matter  as with the amazing atheist and atheist  activism  with vegan activism too there were  millions of dollars involved ultimately  there was money coming from donors there  was support for  the ambitions of people and sometimes  that support is very non-specific they  just are giving money to a youtube  channel or organization  they donate this money with very vague  hope i hope you do something hopefully  something positive come but some good  will come  and  what actually happened  with their money my answer is  nothing  i mean i feel that all of the money  given to the amazing atheist  was wasted it might as well have been  flushed down the toilet but i'm  equally ruthless  and looking at my fellow vegans well  don't give me goodness i'm atheist he's  atheist there's a sense in which we're  on the same team here guys right with  the same kind of change in the world  want to accomplish right like i'm  okay but i feel every penny that's been  donated to the amazing atheist has been  flushed down the toilet has been wasted  and if you add it up just over the last  10 years his career is more than 10  years it's a whole lot of pennies  guys there's a whole lot of potential  that's been squandered there  okay  what about all the money that's been  donated to  a natural vegan you know what what about  all the money that's been donated to any  of the the idols of the vegan movement  how about  the vegan prince  timothy sheef tim sheef how about all  the money and support he got guys like  we could go through a list of incredibly  embarrassing examples of people who took  the money and then went back to eating  meat they didn't even remain vegan or  whatever you know but the money and fame  and time and attention it also would be  squandered and i was in the  uncomfortable position of warning people  in advance i was talking about it in  advance as it happened look guys we have  a brief period of time right now you  know this is like molten iron when the  iron is hot  you can make a difference and then later  on the iron is going to cool down  no matter how hard you hit it you can't  change its shape  this video is partly inspired  by a short comment i read in a book  called 13 clocks  and give you guys the link to that book  it's a peculiar name for a  peculiar book  i'm reading this book very slowly and  very thoroughly so any of you can laugh  at me when i finally tell you i've  finished this book let me tell you  this is a book about the history of the  united states of america in say the 15  years leading up to  um  the american revolution  and um  this is not the thesis it's especially  famous for  it to work  but it's full of observations about the  history of american politics  that reflect the fact that the author  did an enormous amount of reading from  year to year frankly on a kind of  picayune scale  so one of his claims to fame is that he  read  every newspaper published in the united  states of america for every day they  weren't published daily at that time so  that's why it was possible but every  newspaper published um  for so many years leading up to the  american revolution and for all the  years during the american revolution  leading up to uh  writing of the constitution and so on so  he had a real sense of how political  interests changed from one year to the  next  i'm now in my mid 40s  so it's very easy for me to relate to  this and if i've been reading this as a  younger man i would have been  shocked and horrified uh i wouldn't have  been able to accept this  but he says that the interest in  abolishing slavery  hit a peak  in 1773  and then it was already disappearing  in the year 1774 and was forgotten in  1775 and he backs this up with evidence  so if i were reading this at age  23  i'd be saying what do you mean this is  so totally fundamental for american  politics how can people only care about  an issue for about a year and a half and  then lose interest and move on to  another political issue this is insane  this is crazy and by the way you look at  the lives of any of the particular  people the so-called founding fathers  it's true within their lives also it's  like oh yeah for about one year he  really cared a lot about slavery and  then he didn't care about it  just his priorities change  you know now at age 43 i can look at  this sort of thing and say people are  like that you know that's what people  are like people care about something so  intensely for a short time i forget all  about it you know what i mean  even slavery even enthusiastic united  states of america you know this brief  time this is intense public interest and  there's the possibility that things will  change and then that  moment  is lost  you know and the potential  trickles away fizzles out the fire burns  down all right now you tell me this is  the year 2022 what was possible  in the year 2020  what's possible today  all right i could tell you something  collecting more than 90 million dollars  an institution that basically no  legitimacy whatsoever it didn't even  have the normal kind of structure of  board of directors and a constitution  and wasn't promising to accomplish  anything so with the vaguest mandate  imaginable the black lives matter  foundation could get 90 million dollars  in one year without even promising what  they're going to do with the money you  have no idea  and again if you've actually read her  work patrice culler's  loathsome character there are various  things that are politically horrifying  about who she is where she comes from  the book she's published  what is she has to say about communism  for example the extent to which she is a  marxist or a communist uh so on and so  forth yeah  so there are all these red flags  literally  about black lives matter as an  organization okay i'll tell you what was  possible in the year 2020 collecting 90  million dollars with nothing but a  a promise a vague promise to try your  best  to make things better that's impossible  now in 2022 the hope the optimism the  credulity of 2020 is gone  and you know what i think you can even  really say the world has become more  racist  rather than less racist as a result  which is in some ways long-term it's  it's maybe the greatest tragedy of all  you know  and think about how the people of france  now regard us  us just being the people of the united  states and canada think about how the  people of japan regard us you know think  about just what a sad joke american  democracy has become in the eyes of the  world how it's discredited so much about  this this system of just the system of  government  you know sorry but from from soup to  nuts  as they say you know from from the from  the most trivial and small things up to  the most grandiose  um  [Music]  abstractions  um  anyway the implications that way are  really terrible  in this same sense you know i think  there was a time  there was a time when something was  really possible on youtube with atheism  i think there was a time when something  was really possible for the vegan  movement maybe there have been a few  other opportunities like that i haven't  seen that i've been apart there have  been other  budding political movements you know  certainly there was a time when it was  possible to do  what uh jimmy dore did what the young  turks did and starting up a political  commentary and analysis channel and i  think that opportunity is gone  also you know there's some of these  opportunities have have come and gone so  you know what is the purpose of this  channel  you know as we're going into the next  season of about belacio well i can tell  you it's something very different from  what's been here before  i've written this book veganism future  of an illusion and that's really my  final and definitive contribution to the  vegan movement  that sums up and brings together  everything i've learned from  say the last 10 years roughly it does  not repeat anything that's already on  this channel it really doesn't so if  you've already watched the youtube  videos on this channel you will not find  this is a summary of or a reiteration  what was already there it has a lot of  very i mean  it goes much further than anything on  this channel it's very hard-hitting it's  very honest  um  whether or not it would be censored on  this youtube channel it goes all the way  with certain arguments that have never  appeared on this channel have never been  on youtube that is really my final  contribution to uh the vegan movement  and with that i close that chapter of my  of my life you know and as i've already  alluded to the very first chapter of  this channel had everything to do with  atheism it had to do with my own  background as a scholar of buddhism and  what i had to contribute as someone who  devoted years of his life to studying  that philosophy those ancient texts that  politics that history and also those  languages  you'll get to see on this channel just  how much of my brain is still  preoccupied  or let's just say how much of a brain is  still occupied by the study of pali loch  and thai cambodian burmese synoles these  these languages i suck years of my life  into into learning so uh you'll  i don't want to digress this video but  you're going to see some some new  youtube videos talking about that so you  know what does the video what pardon me  what does youtube become about for me  what what is it about now what's it  about next you know this youtube channel  is going to become a reflection of the  reading i am doing the research i'm  doing it's going to become a so-called  booktube channel where i talk about the  books i've read  and it's going to become a reflection of  my own life as an author my own life as  a creator outside of youtube which may  be writing books primarily it may be  writing scripts it may be trying to be a  filmmaker trying to be a screenwriter  and it may be something halfway in  between like doing more stand-up comedy  getting out doing those things but where  i don't regard youtube  as the art form i'm engaged in right  my youtube channel becomes um  [Music]  sorry to use an economic term so the  difference between a leading indicator  and a lagging indicator it's more like a  lagging indicator what i'm doing on  youtube is lagging behind and reflecting  the other research i'm doing the other  reading i'm doing the other writing i'm  doing and then the other work i'm doing  as a creative artist  but youtube itself is no longer really  the primary platform i'm thinking of  that i'm motivated to do work on as a  creative artist  now  why  okay this comes back to the title of  this video why i'm making this video  about answering or not answering  questions from the audience it comes  down to  what difference  can you make  you know now  um  this is a huge contradiction  in all of our lives right by the way  thanks for taking the time to comment  guys i see some of you are having some  meaningful conversations amongst  yourselves which is great no problem  with that if you have a second hit  thumbs up that will help more people  find the video when it's  how more people find the video period  whether they see it today tomorrow or  now so i'm happy we have about 30 people  in the audience if you want to hit  thumbs up so we have 30  thumbs up  thanks it's a mitzvah what can i tell  you  um and by the way guys i said before i'm  happy to talk a little bit more about  bitcoin i can come back to talking about  bitcoin if you're interested in hearing  my perspective on that i don't mind  okay  um  you probably have at least one relative  who is an alcoholic  think about your grandparents aunts  uncles cousins  if you go out far enough there's  somebody who's either an alcoholic or a  drug addict  and i will just confess  my definition of alcoholic may not be  the same as yours  you know i think if alcohol is ruining  your intellectual life your emotional  life or your your ethical life it's  ruining who you are intellectually  emotionally ethically  you've got a problem you've got to quit  drinking alcohol  i drink absolutely zero  so i might perceive someone as an  alcoholic and you don't but with that  having been said you probably know  someone in your family or your  co-workers all right  if i say to you  i'll say his name is john  why don't you take john aside and really  deal with this why don't you really sit  down with john and say hey i'm trying to  save your life  it's very likely that you will say back  the level pardon me it's very likely you  will say back the reason why you never  have done that and the reason why you  never will do that is that it couldn't  possibly make a difference is that  nothing will change so there will be  some conflict created in your life there  will be some level of mutual distrust  and acrimony but nothing positive is  going to come out of it right  well what is what is the point of my  confronting and i've done this  confronting communists face to face on  the internet confronting nazis face to  face the internet and by the way  confronting a lot of misconceptions from  well-intentioned moderate left-wing  people i mean i've also taken on  anarchists libertarians  there have been all kinds of  misconceptions taken on but i've also  really criticized and attacked like  misconceptions that are common amongst  bernie sanders supporters kind of  moderate leftists and you know i'm sorry  there's someone here saying um  they discovered my channel because of my  criticism of marxism it was very  valuable i'm good i'm thank you i'm glad  to hear that and you know i have my own  uh  emotional reasons for dealing with this  i've i grew up surrounded by left-wing  people and being in the vegan movement  for so many years surrounded by  left-wing people i don't know when i was  a buddhist did i know any right-wing  people there are conservative buddhists  i don't know if any of them ever broke  right with me and so on right you know  we we have the incentive  to positively change the world  right  but then we have the disincentive of  this awareness  what difference can it possibly make  what difference can i possibly make even  when we're talking about just one person  we're talking about your friend john  let's say it's your cousin john okay i'm  going to introduce a very simple  variable  what if john is 10 years younger than  you and what if john is 10 years older  than you right  it's different but it's also exactly the  same  so i'm i'm 43  i could have a cousin who's 53 i could  have a cousin who's  33 right the onus on me  is it any is it any different  you know  right so great we have a couple people  in the audience who know just what i'm  talking about alexandra says quote most  of the male side of my family is  alcoholic i try to discuss it with them  many a time but it's like talking to a  brick wall and i have no idea how to  approach anymore right okay so here's  what i want to say to you alexander  [Music]  what if  you  were pewdiepie  what if you  were jacqueline glenn  what if you were the amazing atheist  if you had an audience  the size of jacqueline glenn  and you sit down with your alcoholic  relative on camera  and you record this all of a sudden  there's a point  all of a sudden there's this tremendous  positive motivating factor that you can  change the world just by talking about  these problems  right  you know  i'll give you another example i could  give a whole series of parallel examples  here all right i confronted two cops  walking distance from my house let's put  it that way about what was going on here  with crime on my own block it was a  really nasty face-to-face confrontation  these cops tried to  they tried to intimidate me and they  failed there were a lot of really  strange ironies in this face-off i had  with these two cops um  i i could go into detail here right  the question being put to these cops is  also fundamentally why don't they  actually enforce the law so on and so  forth you know  um  and the cops told me they told me there  were excuses for exactly why they don't  force the law  interesting little moment in my life  okay so really good question what's the  point of doing this uh it's never  happened again i mean since that time i  can't say it's never happened in my life  but since that one event let's say it's  two years ago it's quite a long time ago  now  since that event about two years ago i  haven't had other  confrontations with the cops so what's  what's the point of talking to the cops  what's the point of talking to the cops  about the crime problem or about the  police brutality problem or about you  know the latest decisions made by city  hall  what if you're pewdiepie what if you're  jacqueline glenn  what if you're the amazing atheist right  imagine how meaningful would be indeed  during the year 2020 any one of those  people could have gotten off their ass  and just interviewed a cop they could  have interviewed one police officer who  knew about this stuff about their their  perspective right and all of a sudden  there's this tremendous potential  just because it's on camera so this is  something i have to manage guys let's  say i have to manage in my own life i  have this small  audience  uh it'd be normal for one of my videos  to reach 1000 people  okay  so what do you guys think do you do you  think i should get members of my family  on camera and have confrontations about  this stuff  i've i've i have i have relatives who  have drinking problems okay i'm not  going to get to specify who they are i  can do that  i can make that content right  do you think i should  do you think i should film myself  confronting the cops do you think i  should film myself taking a stand on  on any one of these issues now  sorry the issue with marxism runs really  deep  how about the professors at the  university of victoria  i already alienated myself from those  professors and made my life miserable  and possibly sabotaged my own career or  what have you by really standing up and  being anti-marxist and anti-communist  in a university that's partly dominated  by communists it's not totally dominant  but there's there are a lot of  communists there are a lot of marxists  around in academia and if you don't like  it you can go to one of the crazy  christian universities where instead i  mean go to the mormon university where  religious maniacs dominate the  university so not all universities are  left-wing but the right-wing ones are  going to be really  really scary right okay so look  i i could recount to you from memory  whole bunch of face-offs i have with  professor we're face-to-face with  professors i'm standing up for what i  think truth and justice is or whatever  you know okay what's the point  what's going to change  you know you can make an argument i did  change the minds of a couple of unique  individual people you can also make the  argument i'm not getting into here in  terms of virtue ethics i became a better  person you know through having that  experience through having that  that practice and that's what most of  you are going to have to come down to  when you're thinking about your own  alcoholic uncles and cousins or brothers  and sisters whatever it is  where you're in a situation we say okay  i can't make you  into a better person and i can't be a  better person for you  right but i can be a better person with  you  and you know part of me being a good  person involves me  letting you know me trying to intervene  be trying to  in this sense save your life and guys uh  i'm not joking when i say this about  marxism we have different people talking  about the seriousness of marxism and so  on this way you can say this also about  racism and fascism and some other  ideologies there is a sense when i sit  down and talk to someone who's a true  believing marxist i am trying to save  their life  you know i know it's very different from  being addicted to alcohol it's very  different from me addicted to  cocaine or heroin  but it is no joke marxism ruins people's  lives communism ruins people's lives  obviously joining a neo-nazi  gang you know ruins people's lives right  so look my point is most of you are  making these decisions just on the basis  of virtue ethics what kind of person am  i going to be who am i going to become  and me  you know just being myself in this in  this strange sense okay you know  i have to make this effort i have to let  you know that your alcoholism is bad and  evil and wrong or your commitment to  communism or your commitment to racism  whatever it is it's bad anymore i have  to step up i have to disrupt  the tranquility of this family situation  or this workplace situation or this  university classroom situation you know  what i mean i've got to take a risk  even though you really have nothing to  win  except your own  your own sense of dignity right  so what's happened with this youtube  channel be like in the transition from  season one  to season two  right the transition that's happened  here  really  is the end of any hope i had to change  the world to this youtube channel right  so the first concept of being a part of  what was then although briefly  great competitive  gen x comments quote  marxists are worse than cocaine  i tried both  problem with south america is marxism  and cocaine often go hand in hand it's  often it's the marxists who are making  money at a cocaine deal like a coke  whole marxist armies have been have been  funded through cocaine trafficking  anyway  yeah  i'll ask you this though if you had to  have a roommate would you rather have a  roommate who was marxist and sober or  you know  not a marxist but a cocaine addict  unfortunately you know if a marxist is  your roommate they could also be a  cocaine addict but leaving leaving that  possibility aside  um  anyway again thanks guys i am i am  seeing your comments as they as they  come in uh from the audience we have  someone here mentioning you know hassan  [ __ ] and destiny right  so imagine how different life is for  them  once you have a large enough audience  that even discussions about the most  trivial of political issues in this  sense start to have a  have a start to have a point start to  have real world uh outcomes  so guys look  i got on  youtube  in the first place  with two big motivations one i was  getting divorced  i did not know when i was going to see  my daughter again or how often i was  going to see my daughter again so very  often i'm giving the short version of  the story that's the main thing i  emphasize that's the only thing i  mentioned still true still true today i  now am divorced the question of how  often i get to see my daughter remains  very open this coronavirus thing has  made international travel impossible and  the french court system  is what it is the best of times these  are not the best designs so we don't  know in the next several years how often  i'm going to see my daughter if at all  we don't know and i knew i mean i can  the next airplane i get on could crash  and this youtube channel will be the  last remnant of the man i was it'll be  the only one my daughter ever gets to  know me there's a huge powerful  motivating factor for making a youtube  channel and doing all the things i do  down to and including today this is this  is one factor right  but the second factor is as i've said  recently i'm talking about writing books  you know the potential to make a  difference in the world  i'd put all these years and all this  hard work  into language politics history and  religion of southeast asia  myanmar cambodia laos thailand  sri lanka  i knew all this stuff about tarabata  buddhism and there was this flourishing  atheist movement there was the potential  for me to make a positive difference in  the world and i said yeah i i saw that  and it was obvious that was offering me  immediately  a way to make a difference in the world  much more meaningful than say getting a  phd a phd in religion which is what i  would have had to do to be in that field  many years of hard work and i know  i have no illusions about what's at the  end of that road once you've got the phd  and look guys i mean i think that's true  still today  these kind of intellectually mediocre  youtubers they really are the ones still  making a difference in atheism not the  people with with phds even though i  utterly despise the current generation  of atheist youtubers and they're  accomplishing that okay so we saw that  opportunity to make a difference the  world come and we saw it go  it was totally unexpected for me  totally unexpected that veganism then  proved to be  the next big opportunity on youtube i  didn't expect that at all so i'm being  100 real with you when i made the  transition from taiwan to victoria  canada i thought on my youtube channel i  was going to be talking about chinese  politics and learning the chinese  language and i thought i would have  other people on the channel  collaborating me maybe maybe like uh the  young turks maybe like jimmy dore you  have two or three people sitting at a  desk we would be talking about politics  of china politics of asia and you know  again maybe i talk a little bit about  politics in thailand cambodia some of  these other countries especially but  china  the number of white people who can  really talk in depth and in a meaningful  way about politics of china alone is  almost zero and obviously i was someone  who could make sophisticated comparative  uh statements about how politics of  china are connected to other countries  in asia including india but southeast  asia and then also europe north america  so on and so forth and still this day i  mean so what we have the new york times  sitting here how many pages are about  china  how many pages are about asia in total  if you leaf through the new york times  there are a lot of things i can say that  are bad about the new york times you  know still to this day there's there's  this tremendous scarcity so in both  cases you could say that's me responding  to a certain kind of scarcity i think i  look at what's going on in atheism and  say they have nobody who knows buddhism  there's this atheist movement i can be a  part of i look at what's going on in  politics and at least we call commentary  and analysis i say there's nobody who  knows china i remember sending an email  to the young turks saying that saying  look i appreciate your show i see what  you're doing you got this guy who knows  turkey you got this they think that  another guy that time who knew latin  america you know  i forget exactly who was on the show at  that time you know i know you have these  different people who are specialists and  the guy who was a film expert in this so  you have nobody who knows china you have  no one who knows any part of asia on the  show what you really need to start  covering is at least america's  ongoing kind of cold war with china  which since then has gotten  hotter and hotter but you know  i remember going through and when i  wrote this email  i went through a list of all their  youtube videos and i think it was all  their podcasts i had as two lists for  the number of times china was mentioned  i think it was in a five-year period or  a 10-year period and i told them an  email said look you have only mentioned  china like three times in five years you  know in terms of the synopsis of every  episode um i saw that as a positive  expectation it's a positive opportunity  um to change the world and then you know  to my surprise what i ended up doing  with my time here on youtube instead  was  buddhism  was not buddhism  was not uh chinese politics it was  instead um  uh the vegan movement so like guys  another question this is another example  so you say melissa's here off camera we  have someone here talking about ssri  antidepressants  with all of these things i have to ask  is am i going to let it take over my  life  look so i'm i'm not a member of the  buddhist faith anymore i'm an  ex-buddhist how much time do you want to  put into it do you want to take over  your life i have put a certain number of  years into chinese as a language in  chinese politics industry do you want  that sake of your life the critique of  antidepressants in ssris you have to  make a decision do you want to let that  take over your life and with all these  things to what extent do you want uh  youtube to take over your life so  yeah  um  what i ended up doing was making this  transition from atheism politics and  languages of asia especially china to  some extent japan and then what i ended  up doing for several years was  vegan politics and the question is what  now what next and instead as we move  ahead this is going to become of this  channel where i talk about what it is  i'm reading what it is i'm researching  and what it is i'm trying to do as an  author as a creative artist of my own  initiative  outside of youtube because youtube has  ceased to be the place you know where i  find opportunity right i'm going to be  seeking out those opportunities outside  of youtube and then there's just going  to be a kind of reflection of that  there's going to be a kind of archive  for those thoughts and feelings uh here  on my youtube channel  okay so look  why have i disabled comments  on the youtube channel  it's real easy to think about how much  time you waste  today  writing or replying to  comments in the comment section most  people don't even want to do that they  don't want to clock it they don't really  want to think about how many hours go  into  instagram i'm sorry some of you it's not  on youtube  instagram facebook twitter wherever it  is you're writing these comments reddit  you ever clocked that i know melissa has  had different times in her life where  she doesn't do any of this where she has  zero time wasted this way she's at her  other times when she's feeling she's  wasting time with this and she starts to  chart it or record it how much time is  going into this these kinds of comments  okay if you think it's not significant  today if you think it's not significant  this week or this month i'm telling you  it is all right point two  once you have an audience  even if it is just an audience of 1 000  viewers per video and by the way guys  i've seen the statistics i do have new  people every month it's not the same  1000 people not worth digressing into  that but yeah you do have new people  coming in every month and and seeing  your your videos and you really care  like the reason i'm making that video  talking about bitcoin in the first place  i really care i really want to overcome  the misinformation and propaganda about  bitcoin so how am i going to feel one be  people completely sincere not trolls not  no bad intentions people with bad  intentions come from  people whether they have good intentions  and bad intentions come into my comment  section  and are  you know  sharing exactly the false views that i'm  trying to overturn that i'm trying to  debunk same thing happens with buddhism  and buddhist meditation i make a video  talking about how terrible what a scam  buddhist meditation is you're gonna have  people coming into your comment section  saying no buddhist meditation is  wonderful it changed their lives and  that there's scientific proof of its  benefit i made several youtube videos  specifically saying this is a lie  it is not true that there's scientific  evidence that buddhist meditation  benefits you or any form of meditation  benefits you absolutely debunking that  if the comments section were open every  single comment would be people making  excuses for justifying and supporting  meditation whether buddhist meditation  hindu meditation or so-called secular  meditation which is just as  self-contradictory as talking about  secular prayer  and i've seen that i've seen that when  my videos are discussed on reddit or on  other forums that's all you're looking  at so one point is what do you do when  you uh when you don't want to waste time  what do you do when you really care when  the outcomes really matter  and then taking a step back  looking at it on a larger scale  what is going to happen with the next  five years of your life okay i mean this  sincerely  i think one of the most important  reasons  why the amazing atheist accomplished  nothing  in the last 10 years  is that he spent his time in comment  sessions  when you when you add it up  i think one of the most important  reasons why jacqueline glenn  accomplished nothing so on you can go  down the list of all the luminaries all  the luminaries in atheism all the  luminaries in veganism all the layman's  luminaries and feminism you can look at  feminism as a movement on youtube as  another example right these movements  that have come and gone these are people  who didn't have any particular plan  right they didn't have something they  were trying to accomplish in the next  five years they didn't have a particular  ambition  and when that opportunity was there  when there really was the opportunity to  make a difference in the world  rather than having that kind of plan  rather than having that kind of ambition  and then accomplishing something whether  it be in one year two years or five  years it's not going to happen overnight  right what did they do  they did the same thing that no offense  90 percent of you probably do with your  day they sit there on their phone  bitching and complaining to random  strangers picking fights with random  strangers writing an essay length reply  to a to comment from a from a random  anonymous person the audience that will  maybe be read by just one person just  the person you're replying to but quite  likely  will be read by nobody at all  okay  it's not trivial it's not a minor part  of like what i do on youtube or my life  or your life if you are spending your  life  producing this kind of literature  every day  writing hate mail to strangers and i  know your excuse you may say they  started it it may be that every day  you're responding to hate mail from  strangers whether that's on twitter  whether that's on instagram whether  that's on reddit or whether it's here on  youtube  in a youtube comment section okay there  is an alternative there is there's more  than one alternative there's another way  to live your life you can look back at  what i did in season one on this youtube  channel and you take that as a model i  had a different answer back then but  really briefly what i said was look i'm  part of a political movement i'm an  aspiring leader in the political  movement i'm trying to change the world  so i'm not going to waste time in the  youtube comment section i'm going to  reach out to people as individuals and  talk to them on skype for an hour  because it's better for me to talk to  just one person in depth and get to know  them and talk about their problems and  have that connection to talk to one  person for one hour instead of wasting  the same one hour writing a bunch of  caddy replies to anonymous people  comment sections  again whether twitter  instagram or otherwise that's what i  said then that was my answer in in  season one right season one  came to its calamitous conclusion and  we're now in season two on a battlefield  and i have a different methodology i  have a different answer to the same  fundamental question right and now i'm  not reaching out to anyone  i'm not making myself available for that  one hour  skype call i'm not  the door is closed on that it really is  i'm not available to people anymore and  i no longer see myself as a member of or  a leader of the vegan movement i've made  the contribution that i could i've  written this book and you know we'll see  what we'll see what happens from there  they say that chapter of my life is now  really forever closed what i'm saying is  look i'm living a meaningful life this  is the life of the mind this is what i'm  doing as an intellectual and i'm asking  in the most open-minded way hey who's  with me  you know i'm reading books i'm not  reading books for you  i'm not reading books in order to make  youtube videos about them i'm not  reading books for  the audience i have to have my own  motivations to live my own life of  active research in a formed opinion i've  got to have my own  initiative my own creative projects that  have nothing to do with youtube and have  nothing to do with this audience and  sure as a kind of byproduct  there's something here that i can share  right  and  each of you has to come up  with your own answer this way  if you're honest with yourself  this question  why am i disabled comments at the  youtube section all right it has  implications for you too  because there's some comment section  somewhere you're wasting your time  um harvesting what's the word pruning  mining attending you know  you are attending your own comment  section  whether it is  um  on twitter on instagram on facebook on  whatever social media platform it is you  may have or whether it is that you try  to carry out these kinds of wars right  here in my own comment section all right  um  when you die  do you want us to print out  sum total  of all your correspondence  on twitter  and staple it to your gravestone  do you want us to etch into your  gravestone  here was a great man  he fought  7042  flame wars on twitter  and he won  5027 of them  here are the great and fine words here  is the literature  of caddy remarks and trolling and  replies  is that  is that what you want to have to show  for yourself  when you die  i i think that one of the worst  misconceptions about social media  is that it's  free  this is costing you  all right i mean thank you for listening  to me speak for an hour  but this comes at a price for the  creator and for the people in the  audience there is something else you  could be doing with that time there's  something else you could be reading and  there's something else you could be  writing as well with the same amount of  mental focus and  energy that you're putting into writing  these comments or replying to these  comments whether you're writing long  essays or whether you're just taking the  time to focus your mind and write two  short sentences that are as mean and  emotionally devastating as possible to  that other person there's another kind  of literature  you could be consuming and that you  could be producing also if you could  really just learn this lesson  and turn the comment section  off